---
layout: knit
title: "Hey, Teach!"
category: "Sweater"
pattern: "Hey, Teach!"
designer: 
pattern_url: "https://www.ravelry.com/patterns/library/76823"
status: finished
started: "2010-02-23"
completed: "2010-04-02"
cover: "https://images4-a.ravelrycache.com/uploads/alevtina/25916299/031_medium2.JPG"
yarn: "Knit Picks Shine Worsted"
colorway: "Butter Pecan"
yarn_url: "https://www.ravelry.com/yarns/library/knit-picks-shine-worsted"
rating: 3
ravelry_url: "https://www.ravelry.com/projects/alevtina/hey-teach"
ravelry_id: 3642941
craft: "Knitting"
date: 2010-04-02
tags: ["cardigan", "sweater", "lace"]
---

04/02/10 — Finished! And just in time, too. (I was worried that I was running out of time *and* yarn! But I had just enough of both to pull this sweater off.)  The button & buttonhole bands are slightly too short, causing some bunching in the front... but I actually like the way that looks, so there's some shaping in the front.

04/01/10 — This is the cardigan that never ends.  I finally managed to seam the sides and knit the button & buttonhole bands. All that's left is seaming the sleeves and sewing on buttons.  Today is the recipient's birthday but I won't see her until tomorrow... so I still have 24 hours to figure out [how to seam sleeves onto a sweater][1] o_O

03/29/10 — Grafted the shoulders and worked the neckline ribbing (for 3 rows instead of 2).  Lookin' good! **:**)  Tomorrow I will make the button bands and seam the sides.  If I have any sanity or strength left, I'll also attach the sleeves.

03/26/10 — Sleeves are finished!  I'm afraid that they will not be wide enough... but maybe I have larger-than-average arms? **:**\  Regardless, I'm soaking the pieces now, hoping that I can block the heck out of this cotton/modal yarn.

03/25/10 — Both front panels are now complete. All that's left is 2 sleeves, blocking, sewing all the pieces together, button band, and buttons.  Can I do it all in 6 days?

03/15/10 — Finally finished the back. (It's been slow going. I've only been doing several rows a night.) Realized too late that I made a mistake: I repeated the *entire* chart for the lace pattern, instead of just the outlined part. It's not the end of the world so I just let it be. Now I know better for the front panels **;**)

03/07/10 — Wow. I haven't touched this since the last time I updated. I haven't been knitting anything at all, though... Instead, I've been preparing for a call-back job interview at an awesome library with great librarians. (I really hope I get it!) But I'm almost finished with the back. Whoo!

02/27/10 — <del>(Worked the 1&times;1 rib for one more row (9 total, ending in RS row) then increased two stitches in the next &#91;purl&#93; row so I had 75 stitches total. The lace pattern is a multiple of 25.) That seems to have done the trick.</del> **DON'T LISTEN TO ME! THIS IS WRONG!** (I learned too late. Boo.) Now I'm working in the lace pattern until the back piece measures 14.5" from cast on edge. (Reminder to self: REMEMBER TO PASS THE SLIPPED STITCH OVER THE K2TOG STITCH IN THE SK2P DECREASE! Not doing that causes lots of headaches.)

02/26/10 — Worked in stockinette until back measured 9.5" from cast on edge. Worked in 1&times;1 rib for 8 rows. Now I'm having difficulties with the bodice's set-up row. I work in the lace pattern till the end... but I end in k2 (instead of k2tog). What's going on!? (I tried it twice... I ripped it back twice. Grr!)

02/25/10 — Reached 8" on the back piece... but that seems way too short. I think I'll go for 10".

02/23/10 — I cast on for two other sweater patterns before settling on this one. I'm concerned that I'll have to seam 5 pieces together... but I'm sure I'll make it happen.


  [1]: http://www.knittingdaily.com/blogs/needles/archive/2010/03/18/seaming-a-sleeve-cap-tutorial-part-2.aspx
