---
layout: knit
title: "Raj-esque"
category: "Sweater"
pattern: "Raj-esque"
designer: 
pattern_url: "https://www.ravelry.com/patterns/library/477859"
status: hibernating
started: "2015-06-26"
completed: 
cover: "https://images4-a.ravelrycache.com/uploads/alevtina/416102036/IMG_20161218_160514_2_medium2.jpg"
yarn: "madelinetosh Tosh DK"
colorway: "Bloomsbury / Gossamer / Dust Bowl"
yarn_url: "https://www.ravelry.com/yarns/library/madelinetosh-tosh-dk"
rating: 
ravelry_url: "https://www.ravelry.com/projects/alevtina/raj-esque"
ravelry_id: 15367303
craft: "Knitting"
date: 2015-06-26
tags: ["seamless", "stripes", "sweater", "topdown"]
---

12/18/16 — I haven't touched this project in over a year! :hushed: Now seemed like a good time to get back to it. (I want to finish it before Christmas so I can wear it to Christmas Eve dinner at my boyfriend's parents' house. I've got one sleeve to go plus the collar. It shouldn't take me too long!) I used Jeny's Surprisingly Stretchy Bind-Off on the first (left) sleeve after using a traditional BO and finding it too tight to wear comfortably. 

09/19/15 — The last two months have been hectic so I had to put this sweater on hold. But I'm back! I'm making sleeve #1 and it'll be a while before I start sleeve #2 (little spare time these days) but I'm just happy to be knitting again. 

07/10/15 — Knit to ~14" under the armhole before working in 2x2 rib. BO in pattern. Finally tried it on. Fits!

07/08/15 — Officially on my second hanks of colors A and B. I think I have *way* too much of color C for this project... considering I'm not even halfway through the first hank and there's a whole second one waiting in reserves! Oh, well. Onward!

07/05/15 — Up to 8" under the armholes. Need a few more before I can do the ribbing. Then it's just the sleeves and the neckband. Then comes the process we don't talk about (i.e., weaving in the ends) and then I have a sweater. I hope to have it done by next weekend...

06/30/15 — After struggling a bit with the instructions for the fronts (I kept overthinking it and not trusting the pattern), I was able to get the two shoulder fronts done and I've been knitting away at the body in the round! It's actually looking like it might fit me. (I'm not trying it on as I go because I have the work on 24" circs right now and I don't want to put the work on waste yarn or switch needles yet. I had a scary moment when the cable detached from a previous set of circs mid-round and I had to struggle to catch my stitches. I'm a little scarred and not ready to fiddle with needle cables unnecessarily.)

06/26/15 — A couple of friends started a knitting group and I decided what better time to start a sweater than the middle of the summer? ;) The social aspect of the group will (hopefully!) force me to actually complete the darn thing... Using US 5 needles because I couldn't find any US 6 tips for my circs :\ No swatch, either. I'm livin' dangerously! (And kinda taking into account that the yarn grows when blocking...)

08/18/14 — Gorgeous sweater! Love the colors so ordered similar colors in madelinetosh tosh dk from Jimmy Beans Wool. I can't wait until I have time to work on this beauty for myself!
